So, guys, now let us discuss what memory pages so just like main memory is divided into frames, which
is total physical pages, virtual memory of the process is also fragmented into pages of same size,
which is four kilobits.
These pages are called virtual pages.
So you can see that on the right hand side.
Is that a snapshot of the process which will address the space of the process in execution?
Now, if we divide the entire virtual memory of the process into blocks of equal size, then the virtual
memory is set to be fragmented into virtual pages.
So you can see that starting from the lowest address, we have a page P0, then page B, one that pays
P2 and so on.
Up to page number two is Restore the power 32 minus one.
So each fragment of this virtual memory is called virtual page and each virtual page has a number.
For example, this virtual page has a number P2.
Similarly, this virtual page is Putri.
So if the size of the virtual memory of a process is to restore the power 32 bytes and the size of page
is four zero nine six bytes, then total number of virtual pages into which virtual space of the process
is divided is to restore the power 20 pages.
Right.
It's just simple math.
Now, let me test your ability of permutation and combination, so to identify a page in virtual Atlas
space of a process, we would need 20 bits, right.
Because of the stories, about 20 pages.
So you need Pontypridd in order to uniquely identify a virtual page in a process which will address
the space.
Going further, since size of each virtual page is four zero nine six bytes, right, so trolleybus
are required to uniquely assign an address to abide within a page.
Remember, every byte is supposed to have an address.
So you can see that this diagram is actually a diagram.
This represents a typical virtual memory page.
It means that this virtual page has four zero nine six bytes.
Not every byte has an address.
Therefore, you need to Albats in order to uniquely assign an address to abide within this page.
So remember, 20 books are used to uniquely identify a particular virtual page in a process, virtual
address in space.
And once that particular virtual page is identified, then a unique address within that page is identified
using Talbert's.
Now, we will see in the next slide that where we will get these 20 bags and 12 bits from in order to
make it abide within a process, what the suspect space uniquely.
So if you apply the combination of Pontypridd, followed by Talbert's using these strong debates, you
can uniquely locate a virtual page in a process which will address space.
So, for example, let us say that using these drone tibbits, we look at base number one.
Sixty five.
Right.
And once we locate a page uniquely in process virtual space, we know that there are still four zero
nine six bytes which is present inside the speech.
So using the remaining 12 bits, we can uniquely identify that which byte are actually we are trying
to access.
So until now, we have built up our basic so that we can gracefully conquer the concept of purging in
the coming lecturer's.